# Lunar-Crater-Project
Simulation of Lunar Craters with respect to time. 

The Lunar Crater Project is a detailed simulation designed to recreate the cratering patterns found on the moon. This project, conducted under the mentorship of Dr. David Kipping at The Cool Worlds Group, aims to match the size-frequency distribution and general pattern of the moon's craters. The findings from this project are intended to evaluate the survival chances of hypothetical artifacts on the moon's surface, assess the safety of future moon bases, and provide insights into the age and history of planetary surfaces. The methods and results of this project are applicable to other moons and exomoons across different galaxies.

The first notebook, “Lunar Crater SIM,” contains two main functions. Simulate_craters, and create_csv. The function simulate_craters, creates a visual representation of the craters on the moon at each timestep. The craters from each timestep are represented by a different color. It also prints the number of craters at each timestep. The function create_csv generates a CSV file containing each crater’s longitude, latitude, diameter, and timestep. Craters are generated using an inverse cumulative distribution function (CDF) following a Poisson distribution which generates crater sizes within specified bounds and sizes and places them at longitudes and latitudes generated according to our distribution. 

Due to crater overlap, crater erasure is a significant factor that must be accounted for. The next notebook, “Crater Survival,” takes this CSV file and produces another CSV file with just the surviving craters. This is done by calculating the total fraction of crater rim lost due to all other craters. The CSV file produced is an accurate representation of lunar cratering, taking into account crater erasure. 
